Tosan Ogedengbe
Enterprise Java Fall 2020: Weekly Reflection - Time Logs


Week 5
9/24/2020 - 9/30/2020 - 27 hours

Relevant Items:
1. Watched all Week 4 videos and created notes from these videos
2. Reviewed and re-watched all Week 3 videos
3. Reviewed and re-watched videos from Java Programming 111 (Modules 3-5)
4. Reviewed and re-watched videos from Advanced Java Programming 112 (Unit 1-2)
5. Began research and data collection on Amazon Lumberyard (and other game engines) for the Professional Development Activity
6. Continued to flesh out the additional missing parts for the Individual Project Checkpoint 1
7. Continued work to redefine the HTML files for the Individual Project 


Accomplishments:  
I was able to get all the videos watched for the week. I also created notes from all of these videos to help with learning and retention. It did take longer to watch the videos, but I think it will be worth it to help me learn. I felt I was missing a lot from my inability to complete Week 3 assignments, so I reviewed all Week 3 videos again. I may still have some issues with Log4J and the like, but now, there is a chance my questions will come from a less ignorant space since I have done this review. I found myself asking a lot of internal questions when watching Week 4 videos about properties files and things like that. So, I decided to go back to basics and review several modules that contained areas I felt I needed some review on. That meant going back to Java 111 and Java 112 and taking a fresh look at the materials there. 
I collected a lot of good data from several articles on Amazon Lumberyard and other game engines in use in the industry. I will now need to collect this information into something that is digestible, makes sense and is fun to present. I did find some nice links to demos of game assets being shown off in these engines - so maybe that will be a good audio visual addition to the report to help at least show some of what game engines do. 


Setbacks:  
Either I have forgotten a lot of material, or I am allowing several questions I am asking myself internally to come out. These are causing me to have to backtrack to get these answers. I feel this might be due to a failure on my part to ask these questions back when they first came to me for whatever reason. I don’t have a lot of time to be going backwards - especially with my medical issues going to the highest level during this week. That will definitely take some time away from my ability to do this work. I had to choose, and I felt it would be best to reinforce my knowledge by going back and watching videos. I refuse to build this project by following demos and not really fully understanding how all of this goes together.
I noticed a bit of this mental block (or case of forgetfulness) seems to get in the way of my making progress on the assignments for Week 4. This along with the deterioration of my medical condition has not allowed me to make good progress on the assignments for Week 4. They will not be turned in on time this week. So, I could be looking at falling behind a bit once more once. 


Next Week Plan:
I have a lot of questions that I feel are just now coming up and some due to ignorance or a failure to ask them before. Answers will go a long way in helping me think more clearly about Java, how it works and why we do the things we are asked to do when learning it. It may require me submitting these as a series of questions so that a real discussion can be had to help me fill in the blanks. Next week will also be devoted to catching up as much as possible. I need to complete the assignments for Week 4 as soon as possible. Then, it is onto Week 5. After that, I need to get right into my individual project. 

 









 






